= java_bin

This is an Apache Solr JavaBin format (binary format) implementation for Ruby.

== Features

* fast parse(2.5 - 5 times faster than ruby eval), and less network traffic.
 MRI 1.8.7
  [data2]
  ruby eval parse. 5000 times. elapsed time 6.664981
  javabin parse.   5000 times. elapsed time 1.472825
  4.52530409247534 times

 REE 1.8.7
  [data2]
  ruby eval parse. 5000 times. elapsed time 4.844482
  javabin parse.   5000 times. elapsed time 1.059044
  4.57439162112245 times

 YARV 1.9.2 pre1
  [data2]
  ruby eval parse. 5000 times. elapsed time 6.659331328
  javabin parse.   5000 times. elapsed time 1.261828473
  5.277525012704322 times

* rsolr/solr-ruby support.
* pure and c extension code.
* ruby 1.8/1.9 support.

== Requirements

* Ruby1.8.7 or later (include 1.9.x)
* (recommended) C compiler (gcc or vc++): you can also use java_bin without c extension, but 'pure' is 30 times slower than 'ext'.
* JavaBin has been tested with MRI 1.8.7, REE 1.8.7, YARV 1.9.2 pre1 on Ubuntu Linux 9.10 (32bit) and MRI 1.8.6, YARV 1.9.1 on Windows Vista (32bit), and Apache Solr 1.4  

== Install

 (Linux)
 gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org
 gem install java_bin

 (Windows)
 fix (path to)\ruby\lib\ruby\1.8\i386-mswin32\config.h
   #if _MSC_VER != 1200
     ↓
   #if _MSC_VER < 1200

 start => visual studio c++ 200x xxxx edition => visual studio tools => visual studio 200x command prompt
 gem sources -a http://gemcutter.org
 gem install java_bin
   or
 cd (path to)\ext\java_bin\ext
 ruby extconf.rb
 nmake

== Simple Usage

 require 'rubygems'
 require 'java_bin'

 @parser = JavaBin.parser.new
 result = @parser.parse( javabin format string )

=== With RSolr/Solr-Ruby

* By RSolr/Solr-Ruby support, a parser automatically uses javabin format instead of ruby format.

 require 'rubygems'
 require 'rsolr'
 require 'java_bin'
 
 solr = RSolr.connect
 solr.select :q => '*:*'

== TODO

* max os x supoort
* more parse speed
* license
* shared string over parsing
* builder(writer)作成
* JRuby support

== References

* javabin http://wiki.apache.org/solr/javabin
* javabin codec (for java) http://svn.apache.org/viewvc/lucene/solr/trunk/src/common/org/apache/solr/common/util/JavaBinCodec.java?view=markup
* rsolr http://github.com/mwmitchell/rsolr/
* solr-ruby http://wiki.apache.org/solr/solr-ruby

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Author

Toshinori Kajihara <mailto:kennyj@gmail.com>

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 kennyj. See LICENSE for details.
